Title: Octopus, Light, and Scientific Studies

Humans in the United States have a game that simulates their traffic systems. It goes by a number of names, and ways to play, but it is commonly referred to as “Red light, Green light.” On the red light, all participants stop moving, and the ones who fail to do so are eliminated. On green light, participants try to race to their goal. This whole game is based on sight, and response time of the participants. 

https://www.pexels.com/photo/selective-focus-photography-of-traffic-light-1616781/ 

While this game is not played with red lights and green lights, can you imagine a world where you could sense light without seeing it with your eyes? Not through temperature change either, but your fingers simply told you “this is a lit up location.” A recent study, reported on by Cameron Duke in [this article] (https://www.livescience.com/octopus-sees-light-with-arms.html) describes a shocking behavior by octopuses like me! My name is Zelda, the octopus, and I operate as the brand ambassador and acquisitions director at Apazed. I also enjoy doing research on various projects from time to time, with particular interest in octopus news and ocean insights.

I, as an octopus, can sense light with my tentacles, but without being able to see it with my eyes. Now, this was a somewhat accidental discovery. The scientists involved were trying to cause a specific response in participating octopuses by shining a light on it. However, the octopus was very light averse. This has been known behavior of the octopus but the question became: how is the octopus doing this?

https://www.pexels.com/photo/spotlight-illuminating-smoke-4722576/ 

I’ll let you in on an octopus secret: we are not very aware of where we are at in relation to space. Yes, we explore with our tentacles, and crawl, and have a lot of control of them, but it is a bit tricky to keep track of. The theory is that this light aversion helps us to avoid predators, and pincers. If the light on our tentacles moves too dramatically, we will quickly withdraw them to prevent harm.

Yet, as it turns out, we can do this without even seeing the light. We can somehow sense it on our tentacles, even when our eyes are covered. And perhaps more interestingly, this is a decision that we make. There are automatic responses that people all experience: when there is some kind of pain, we generally try to get away from it. When there is a change in temperature, sometimes people shiver or get goosebumps. When the doctor uses a rubber hammer on your knee, it can cause your leg to kick out. These are not generally decisions that are made, no different than your eyes adjusting to light. The tentacle response to light however, is a decision that we make. When an octopus has it’s sensory nerves disrupted within the tentacle, the tentacle no longer avoids the light. When the octopus is unconscious, the tentacles no longer avoid the light. Moreover, there are degrees to the sense that we have to the light: the reaction is stronger on the tips of the tentacles than it is further towards the body.

https://www.pexels.com/photo/turned-on-light-bulb-712490/ 

This means this is a level of awareness and understanding and decision making the octopus makes, and does so very quickly. How does this process work, and what is the experience like? To be honest, scientists don’t really know precisely.

There are a number of observations being made about the octopus of late though, especially in terms of brains. Scientists have recently been observing our sleep patterns, and have noted that there is a short period of activity while we sleep, followed by long periods of stillness. They suspect it may function similarly to human dreams, but are unsure. They can tell when we enter that phase of sleep however, because our skin color changes for a short period of time.
Scientists spend a lot of time trying to understand the how’s and why’s of animals and our brains, to try and understand and gain insights into the human brain. Why do animals, and people sleep? The theory is that it helps our brains, and conserves energy. The truth of the matter is that we are not entirely sure. We know what happens when we do not sleep, but have not entirely pinpointed the relationship between it all. As a result, scientists look at various animals, and perform sleep studies on willing participants, to try and understand precisely what is happening. One recent study highlighted that we octopuses have a period of active sleep, similar to what happens with humans in REM. While we have not fully landed on precisely what sleep does and why we need it, it is something all creatures do. Therefore, there is plenty of species to look about and investigate to figure out why.

https://www.pexels.com/photo/sphere-shaped-miniature-of-earth-with-googly-eyes-5217883/ 

Personally, I find this information fascinating. I very much enjoy the idea of learning from one another, and from other species. There are all sorts of insights that humans have gleaned from animals throughout history. This ranges from very practical and basic things about what foods and plants are edible, to medical advancement, biological study, interaction, and much more! We have seen large strides in understanding communication, and the primate mind, from Koko the late gorilla who learned sign language. There are current studies being done with dogs in language recognition and communication. It is a very exciting time to watch our understanding of life grow, and the relevance the lives of other species begins to impact the others.

This is part of the reason why we are supporting [Stripe Climate](https://stripe.com/climate) in their efforts to help fight climate change. It has huge impacts on life as a whole of our planet. We would also love to invite you to do the same! Stripe is a tool that allows you to collect payment, and we at [Apazed](www.apazed.com) would love to help you set up Stripe for your website. We exist to help you connect with your customers in fast and easy ways, so you can get your business done.
